README.md, before:

# AMD RAUX (an Open-WebUI fork) 🤖

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/open-webui/open-webui?color=red)
![Hits](https://hits.seeyoufarm.com/api/count/incr/badge.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Follama-webui%2Follama-wbui&count_bg=%2379C83D&title_bg=%23555555&icon=&icon_color=%23E7E7E7&title=hits&edge_flat=false)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Open_WebUI-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/5rJgQTnV4s)
[![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=%23fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/tjbck)

**RAUX is an extensible feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI platform designed to operate entirely offline.** It supports various LLM runners like **GAIA**, **Lemonade**, **Ollama** and **OpenAI-compatible APIs**, with **built-in inference engine** for RAG, making it a **powerful AI deployment solution**.

![Open WebUI Demo](./demo.gif)

> [!TIP]  
> **Looking for an [Enterprise Plan](https://docs.openwebui.com/enterprise)?** – **[Speak with Our Sales Team Today!](mailto:sales@openwebui.com)**
>
> Get **enhanced capabilities**, including **custom theming and branding**, **Service Level Agreement (SLA) support**, **Long-Term Support (LTS) versions**, and **more!**

For more information, be sure to check out our [Open WebUI Documentation](https://docs.openwebui.com/).

## Key Features of Open WebUI ⭐

- 🌲 **GAIA Integration**: Seamless connection with AMD's GAIA solution, providing enhanced performance for AMD hardware users. Run AI models efficiently on AMD GPUs and NPUS mode through the same intuitive interface you use for other backends like Ollama, with optimized resource utilization and acceleration features specific to AMD architecture. No AMD CPU, GPU or NPU, we got you covered! Check out the [Architecture Docs](docs/architecture.md) for more information.

- 🤝 **Lemonade/Ollama/OpenAI API Integration**: Effortlessly integrate OpenAI-compatible APIs for versatile conversations alongside Lemonade 🍋 and Ollama models. Customize the OpenAI API URL to link with **LMStudio, GroqCloud, Mistral, OpenRouter, and more**.

- 🛡️ **Granular Permissions and User Groups**: By allowing administrators to create detailed user roles and permissions, we ensure a secure user environment. This granularity not only enhances security but also allows for customized user experiences, fostering a sense of ownership and responsibility amongst users.

- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Enjoy a seamless experience across Desktop PC, Laptop, and Mobile devices.

- 📱 **Progressive Web App (PWA) for Mobile**: Enjoy a native app-like experience on your mobile device with our PWA, providing offline access on localhost and a seamless user interface.

- ✒️🔢 **Full Markdown and LaTeX Support**: Elevate your LLM experience with comprehensive Markdown and LaTeX capabilities for enriched interaction.

- 🎤📹 **Hands-Free Voice/Video Call**: Experience seamless communication with integrated hands-free voice and video call features, allowing for a more dynamic and interactive chat environment.

- 🛠️ **Model Builder**: Easily create Ollama models via the Web UI. Create and add custom characters/agents, customize chat elements, and import models effortlessly through [Open WebUI Community](https://openwebui.com/) integration.

- 🐍 **Native Python Function Calling Tool**: Enhance your LLMs with built-in code editor support in the tools workspace. Bring Your Own Function (BYOF) by simply adding your pure Python functions, enabling seamless integration with LLMs.

- 📚 **Local RAG Integration**: Dive into the future of chat interactions with groundbreaking Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) support. This feature seamlessly integrates document interactions into your chat experience. You can load documents directly into the chat or add files to your document library, effortlessly accessing them using the `#` command before a query.

- 🔍 **Web Search for RAG**: Perform web searches using providers like `SearXNG`, `Google PSE`, `Brave Search`, `serpstack`, `serper`, `Serply`, `DuckDuckGo`, `TavilySearch`, `SearchApi` and `Bing` and inject the results directly into your chat experience.

- 🌐 **Web Browsing Capability**: Seamlessly integrate websites into your chat experience using the `#` command followed by a URL. This feature allows you to incorporate web content directly into your conversations, enhancing the richness and depth of your interactions.

- 🎨 **Image Generation Integration**: Seamlessly incorporate image generation capabilities using options such as AUTOMATIC1111 API or ComfyUI (local), and OpenAI's DALL-E (external), enriching your chat experience with dynamic visual content.

- ⚙️ **Many Models Conversations**: Effortlessly engage with various models simultaneously, harnessing their unique strengths for optimal responses. Enhance your experience by leveraging a diverse set of models in parallel.

- 🔐 **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Ensure secure access with restricted permissions; only authorized individuals can access your Ollama, and exclusive model creation/pulling rights are reserved for administrators.

- 🌐🌍 **Multilingual Support**: Experience Open WebUI in your preferred language with our internationalization (i18n) support. Join us in expanding our supported languages! We're actively seeking contributors!

- 🧩 **Pipelines, Open WebUI Plugin Support**: Seamlessly integrate custom logic and Python libraries into Open WebUI using [Pipelines Plugin Framework](https://github.com/open-webui/pipelines). Launch your Pipelines instance, set the OpenAI URL to the Pipelines URL, and explore endless possibilities. [Examples](https://github.com/open-webui/pipelines/tree/main/examples) include **Function Calling**, User **Rate Limiting** to control access, **Usage Monitoring** with tools like Langfuse, **Live Translation with LibreTranslate** for multilingual support, **Toxic Message Filtering** and much more.

- 🌟 **Continuous Updates**: We are committed to improving Open WebUI with regular updates, fixes, and new features.

## How to Install 🚀

### Intallation with [GAIA](https://github.com/aigdat/gaia)

This version of OpenWebUI is installed in conjunction with [GAIA](https://github.com/aigdat/gaia)🌲. Check out the [installation guide](docs/install.md) for more information.

### Installation via Python pip 🐍

#### Open WebUI: Server Connection Error

### Offline Mode

If you are running Open WebUI in an offline environment, you can set the `HF_HUB_OFFLINE` environment variable to `1` to prevent attempts to download models from the internet.

```bash
export HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1
```

## License 📜

This project is licensed under the [BSD-3-Clause License](LICENSE) - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. 📄
---

Created by [Timothy Jaeryang Baek](https://github.com/tjbck) - Let's make Open WebUI even more amazing together! 💪

Commit message:

Add README generation for artifacts in GitHub Actions workflow and comment out create-release job
This update introduces a step to create a README.txt file for the artifacts generated during the build process, detailing the contents and usage instructions. Additionally, the create-release job has been commented out to prevent releases during PR builds, streamlining the workflow for pull requests.

README.md, after:

# AMD RAUX (an Open-WebUI fork) 🤖

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/open-webui/open-webui?style=social)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/open-webui/open-webui)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/open-webui/open-webui?color=red)
![Hits](https://hits.seeyoufarm.com/api/count/incr/badge.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Follama-webui%2Follama-wbui&count_bg=%2379C83D&title_bg=%23555555&icon=&icon_color=%23E7E7E7&title=hits&edge_flat=false)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Open_WebUI-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/5rJgQTnV4s)
[![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=%23fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/tjbck)

**RAUX is an extensible feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI platform designed to operate entirely offline.** It supports various LLM runners like **GAIA**, **Lemonade**, **Ollama** and **OpenAI-compatible APIs**, with **built-in inference engine** for RAG, making it a **powerful AI deployment solution**.

![Open WebUI Demo](./demo.gif)

> [!TIP]  
> **Looking for an [Enterprise Plan](https://docs.openwebui.com/enterprise)?** – **[Speak with Our Sales Team Today!](mailto:sales@openwebui.com)**
>
> Get **enhanced capabilities**, including **custom theming and branding**, **Service Level Agreement (SLA) support**, **Long-Term Support (LTS) versions**, and **more!**

For more information, be sure to check out our [Open WebUI Documentation](https://docs.openwebui.com/).

## Key Features of Open WebUI ⭐

- 🌲 **GAIA Integration**: Seamless connection with AMD's GAIA solution, providing enhanced performance for AMD hardware users. Run AI models efficiently on AMD GPUs and NPUS mode through the same intuitive interface you use for other backends like Ollama, with optimized resource utilization and acceleration features specific to AMD architecture. No AMD CPU, GPU or NPU, we got you covered! Check out the [Architecture Docs](docs/architecture.md) for more information.

- 🤝 **Lemonade/Ollama/OpenAI API Integration**: Effortlessly integrate OpenAI-compatible APIs for versatile conversations alongside Lemonade 🍋 and Ollama models. Customize the OpenAI API URL to link with **LMStudio, GroqCloud, Mistral, OpenRouter, and more**.

- 🛡️ **Granular Permissions and User Groups**: By allowing administrators to create detailed user roles and permissions, we ensure a secure user environment. This granularity not only enhances security but also allows for customized user experiences, fostering a sense of ownership and responsibility amongst users.

- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Enjoy a seamless experience across Desktop PC, Laptop, and Mobile devices.

- 📱 **Progressive Web App (PWA) for Mobile**: Enjoy a native app-like experience on your mobile device with our PWA, providing offline access on localhost and a seamless user interface.

- ✒️🔢 **Full Markdown and LaTeX Support**: Elevate your LLM experience with comprehensive Markdown and LaTeX capabilities for enriched interaction.

- 🎤📹 **Hands-Free Voice/Video Call**: Experience seamless communication with integrated hands-free voice and video call features, allowing for a more dynamic and interactive chat environment.

- 🛠️ **Model Builder**: Easily create Ollama models via the Web UI. Create and add custom characters/agents, customize chat elements, and import models effortlessly through [Open WebUI Community](https://openwebui.com/) integration.

- 🐍 **Native Python Function Calling Tool**: Enhance your LLMs with built-in code editor support in the tools workspace. Bring Your Own Function (BYOF) by simply adding your pure Python functions, enabling seamless integration with LLMs.

- 📚 **Local RAG Integration**: Dive into the future of chat interactions with groundbreaking Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) support. This feature seamlessly integrates document interactions into your chat experience. You can load documents directly into the chat or add files to your document library, effortlessly accessing them using the `#` command before a query.

- 🔍 **Web Search for RAG**: Perform web searches using providers like `SearXNG`, `Google PSE`, `Brave Search`, `serpstack`, `serper`, `Serply`, `DuckDuckGo`, `TavilySearch`, `SearchApi` and `Bing` and inject the results directly into your chat experience.

- 🌐 **Web Browsing Capability**: Seamlessly integrate websites into your chat experience using the `#` command followed by a URL. This feature allows you to incorporate web content directly into your conversations, enhancing the richness and depth of your interactions.

- 🎨 **Image Generation Integration**: Seamlessly incorporate image generation capabilities using options such as AUTOMATIC1111 API or ComfyUI (local), and OpenAI's DALL-E (external), enriching your chat experience with dynamic visual content.

- ⚙️ **Many Models Conversations**: Effortlessly engage with various models simultaneously, harnessing their unique strengths for optimal responses. Enhance your experience by leveraging a diverse set of models in parallel.

- 🔐 **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Ensure secure access with restricted permissions; only authorized individuals can access your Ollama, and exclusive model creation/pulling rights are reserved for administrators.

- 🌐🌍 **Multilingual Support**: Experience Open WebUI in your preferred language with our internationalization (i18n) support. Join us in expanding our supported languages! We're actively seeking contributors!

- 🧩 **Pipelines, Open WebUI Plugin Support**: Seamlessly integrate custom logic and Python libraries into Open WebUI using [Pipelines Plugin Framework](https://github.com/open-webui/pipelines). Launch your Pipelines instance, set the OpenAI URL to the Pipelines URL, and explore endless possibilities. [Examples](https://github.com/open-webui/pipelines/tree/main/examples) include **Function Calling**, User **Rate Limiting** to control access, **Usage Monitoring** with tools like Langfuse, **Live Translation with LibreTranslate** for multilingual support, **Toxic Message Filtering** and much more.

- 🌟 **Continuous Updates**: We are committed to improving Open WebUI with regular updates, fixes, and new features.

## How to Install 🚀

### Intallation with [GAIA](https://github.com/aigdat/gaia)

This version of OpenWebUI is installed in conjunction with [GAIA](https://github.com/aigdat/gaia)🌲. Check out the [installation guide](docs/install.md) for more information.

### Installation via Python pip 🐍

#### Open WebUI: Server Connection Error

### Offline Mode

If you are running Open WebUI in an offline environment, you can set the `HF_HUB_OFFLINE` environment variable to `1` to prevent attempts to download models from the internet.

```bash
export HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1
```

## Development Workflow 🛠️

If you're interested in contributing to RAUX or need to test installer changes, please refer to our [Development Guide](docs/development.md). The guide provides detailed instructions for:

- Making changes to installer components
- Testing installer changes without creating releases
- Using local artifacts for testing
- Common troubleshooting steps

For installer development, we now use a standalone Python 3.11 installation instead of conda, making it more consistent with GAIA's approach.

## License 📜

This project is licensed under the [BSD-3-Clause License](LICENSE) - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. 📄
---

Created by [Timothy Jaeryang Baek](https://github.com/tjbck) - Let's make Open WebUI even more amazing together! 💪
